---
title: Assurance Package Cash, MediSave and GSTV – Cash (Seniors' Bonus)
permalink: /faqs/ap-cash/
description: ""
---
### Notification
<b>1. How will I be notified of the AP Cash, GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus) and/or AP MediSave?</b>
<br><br>You will receive a message in the inbox of your Singpass app after payment has been made in December for AP Cash and in February for GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus) and AP MediSave.  Please turn on your notifications for the app so that you will not miss any alerts and messages. <br><br>
If you do not have the Singpass app, an SMS will be sent to your Singpass-registered mobile number.<br><br>
For AP MediSave, individuals aged 20 years old and below who may not have their own Singpass account will be notified via letters sent to their parent’s/guardian’s residential address. 
<br><br>
<b>2. How do I update my mobile number to receive SMS for AP Cash, GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus) and/or AP MediSave?</b> <br><br>
To update your mobile number to receive SMS for AP Cash, GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus) and/or AP MediSave, please log in to your Singpass account at the <a class="hyperlink" href="https://www.singpass.gov.sg/"> Singpass website</a>.<br><br>For AP MediSave, eligible children without SingPass will be notified via letters sent to their parent's/guardian's residential address.<br><br>
<b>3. How do I download and set up my Singpass mobile app?</b><br><br>You can download the Singpass app at the <a class="hyperlink" href="https://www.singpass.gov.sg/"> Singpass website</a>.<br>
### Sign-Up
<b>1. Do I need to sign up for AP Cash, GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus) and/or AP MediSave?</b><br><br>You will automatically receive your AP Cash, GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus) and/or AP MediSave if you are eligible. No action is required on your part.<br>
### Payment
<b>1. How will I receive my AP Cash and/or GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus)? </b><br>You will receive your AP Cash and/or GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus) via your PayNow-NRIC linked bank account. <br><br>If you do not have a PayNow-NRIC-linked bank account but have provided your DBS/POSB, OCBC or UOB bank account number to the Government previously, you will receive your AP Cash and/or GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus) via bank transfer. You can check and update your bank account details registered with us by logging in to our <a class="hyperlink" href="https://www.govpayouts.gov.sg/cds/ap/login" >e-services</a> with your Singpass.<br><br> Otherwise, the cash benefit will be credited to you via <a class="hyperlink" href="https://www.govbenefits.gov.sg/govcash/">GovCash</a>. You are encouraged to link your NRIC to PayNow to receive your benefits earlier. <br><br>
<b>2. How can I update my mode of payment for AP Cash and/or GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus)?</b><br><br>You are encouraged to register for PayNow-NRIC with your bank to receive your AP Cash and/or GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus) benefits earlier. Otherwise, you can update your bank account details by logging in to our <a class="hyperlink" href="https://www.govpayouts.gov.sg/cds/ap/login" >e-services</a> with your Singpass. Only bank account details received by 3 December 2022 would be used for crediting by 12 December 2022. <br><br>Payment instructions received from 4 December 2022 will be used for future government benefits.<br><br>
<b>3. What is PayNow?</b><br><br>PayNow is a secure funds transfer service that allows customers to receive money into their participating bank account via NRIC/FIN and/or mobile number. The 10 participating banks in Singapore are: Bank of China, Citibank Singapore Limited, DBS Bank/POSB, HSBC, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, Maybank, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, United Overseas Bank, and CIMB Bank Berhad.<br><br>With PayNow, the recipient's bank information will be kept private. The sender only needs to use the recipient's mobile number or NRIC/FIN to send money. This applies to individuals and organisations (i.e. private firms and government agencies).<br><br><b>4. How do I link my NRIC to PayNow?</b><br><br>
You may choose the following steps:<br><br>1. Choose your preferred bank account to receive money.<br>2. Log in to your Internet banking or mobile banking app.<br>3. Register for PayNow-NRIC.
<br><br><b>5. My mobile number is already registered to my bank account on PayNow. Can the Government credit the AP Cash to me via PayNow-Mobile instead?</b><br><br>We can only credit your AP Cash to you via PayNow-NRIC. Mobile numbers are not unique to the individual and may be subject to change. To ensure that the money is credited to the correct recipient, only NRIC will be accepted as the proxy for government benefits via PayNow.
<br><br>
Eligible Singaporeans who have linked their NRIC to PayNow will receive the benefits in their PayNow-NRIC-linked bank account.<br><br>
<b>6. What is GovCash?</b><br><br>GovCash is a payment mode that allows Singapore citizens to receive their benefits from Government agencies more quickly and conveniently. Singaporeans can withdraw their Government benefits in cash from over 500 OCBC ATMs located across Singapore. <br><br>
Previously, cheque recipients would have to deposit the cheques or encash them over the bank counters. GovCash allows them to receive their benefits at the OCBC ATM immediately at any time of the day. They are no longer restricted by the bank's operating hours. Singaporeans who prefer to seek assistance with their GovCash withdrawals can visit the ATMs located within OCBC's branches during operating hours, where OCBC Digital Ambassadors will be present to guide them. In addition, GovCash also allows recipients to use the scan-and-pay function and PayNow transfer option through the LifeSG mobile app.<br><br>
For enquiries related to withdrawal of AP Cash and/or GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus) via GovCash, please refer to the <a class="hyperlink" href="https://govbenefits.gov.sg/govcash/"> GovCash FAQs</a>. <br><br>
<b>7. Why are cheques not issued for AP Cash and GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus)?</b><br><br>GovCash will replace cheques from 2022 onwards to allow Singapore citizens to receive their benefits more quickly and conveniently.<br><br>Previously, cheque recipients would have to deposit the cheques or encash them over the bank counters. GovCash allows them to receive their benefits at the OCBC ATMs islandwide immediately at any time of the day. They are no longer restricted by the OCBC bank's operating hours. Singaporeans who prefer to seek assistance with their GovCash withdrawals can visit the ATMs located within OCBC's branches during operating hours, where OCBC Digital Ambassadors will be present to guide them. In addition, GovCash also allows recipients to use the scan-and-pay function and PayNow transfer option through the LifeSG mobile app.<br>
### Other Enquiries
<b>1. Do I qualify for the AP Cash and/or GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus) if my Assessable Income is unavailable, but I meet all other criteria? </b><br><br>If your AI is unavailable because you have not yet filed your income tax returns, please call IRAS at 1800 356 8300. Once your AI for YA2022 has been finalised by IRAS, we will notify you if you are eligible for the 2022 AP Cash and 2023 GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus).<br><br>
<b>2. One of the eligibility criteria for the 2023 GSTV – Cash (Seniors' Bonus) is that the Income Earned in 2021 (AI for the YA2022) must not exceed $34,000. Why is the AI for YA2022 (instead of YA2023) used?</b><br><br>For Singaporeans to receive their 2023 GSTV – Cash (Seniors' Bonus) by February 2023, we assess the eligibility based on Income Earned for 2021 (AI for YA2022) which is the latest tax assessment available. <br><br>
<b>3. Why is AV used instead of flat type for GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus)?</b><br><br>AV is currently used as a proxy for wealth and family support. While it is not a perfect measure, it is currently the best available proxy to assess the financial resources available to the individual, including from immediate family members that reside with this individual.<br><br>
<b>4. Why is AV used for GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus) but not for AP Cash?</b><br><br>Our social support schemes are generally means-tested to ensure support is targeted to help Singaporeans with greater needs. For GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus), the approach of using both AV and AI is to enable us to better target the support to those who are in need of greater help.<br><br>For AP Cash, the benefits are meant for all adult Singaporeans to cushion the impact of the GST increase. Lower-income Singaporeans and those who do not own more than one property will receive higher cash benefits.<br><br>
<b>5. Do I qualify for the GSTV – Cash (Seniors' Bonus) if the AV of my residence is unavailable, but I meet all other criteria?</b><br><br>The AV is based on IRAS’ property tax assessment. If you have not received your property tax notification for 2022, the AV of your residence may not have been available at the point of determining the allotment for the 2023 GSTV – Cash (Seniors' Bonus).<br><br>You may contact us at 1800 2222 888 or log in to the <a class="hyperlink" href="https://www.govpayouts.gov.sg/cds/gstv/login"> e-services </a> with your Singpass to update us when the AV of your residence is available.<br><br>
<b>6. How much will I get if I stay in a rented property?</b><br><br>The amount of GSTV – Cash (Seniors' Bonus) you get depends on the AV of your place of residence as stated on your NRIC as at 31 July 2022, regardless of whether you own or rent the property.<br><br>There is no AV criteria for AP Cash.<br><br>
<b>7. If I own several properties, which AV will be used?</b><br><br>Those who own more than one property will be eligible for AP Cash but not the GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus).  Such properties may include shophouses, private residential properties or non-residential properties such as commercial or industrial properties.<br><br>
<b>8. I am residing residing overseas, am I eligible to receive the AP Cash, MediSave and/or GSTV – Cash (Seniors' Bonus)?</b><br><br>The AP benefits and/or GSTV – Cash (Seniors' Bonus) are meant to provide relief to Singaporeans to address their concerns on the cost of living in Singapore and to cushion the impact of the planned GST rate increase for Singaporeans residing in Singapore. Therefore, you are not eligible for these benefits if you are residing overseas.<br><br><b>9. If the beneficiary passes away before the payment of the AP Cash and/or GSTV – Cash (Seniors’ Bonus) is made , will he/she still qualify?</b><br><br>No. The AP Cash and/or GSTV – Cash (Seniors' Bonus) is only paid out to Singapore citizens who are alive.<br><br>